sync glossaries between eth.org, ethdocs.org & eth.wiki (#5978)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/glossary/index.md

An Application Programming Interface (API) is a set of definitions for how to use a piece of software. An API sits between an application and a web server, and facilitates the transfer of data between them.

### ASIC {#asic}

> Application-specific integrated circuit, in this case referring to an integrated circuit custom built for cryptocurrency mining.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Application-specific integrated circuit. This usually refers to an integrated circuit, custom-built for cryptocurrency mining.
```

  Blocks
</DocLink>

> ### block(chain) explorer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### block explorer {#block-explorer}
```

> A website that allows easy searching and extraction of data from the blockchain.

Reviewer: This seems vague.

Author: Changed to:
"A website that allows a user to search for information from, and about, a blockchain. This includes retrieving individual transactions, activity associated with specific addresses and information about the network."

### block header {#block-header}

The data in a block which is unique to its content and the circumstances in which it was created. It includes the hash of the previous block’s header, the version of the software the block is mined with, the timestamp and the merkle root hash of the contents of the block.

### block propagation {#block-propagation}

The process of transmitting a confirmed block to all other nodes in the network.

> ### block time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### block time {#block-time}
```

> The average time interval between the mining of two blocks. After the merge the block time will be the time between two Beacon blocks (under optimal conditions there will be one block per slot, which occurs every 6 seconds).

Reviewer: > After the merge the block time will be the time between two Beacon blocks (under optimal conditions there will be one block per slot, which occurs every 6 seconds).

I don't think we need to explain this

Author: ok, changed to:

"The average time interval between blocks being added to the blockchain."

  What is a Blockchain?
</DocLink>

> ### bootnode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### bootnode {#bootnode}
```

  Introduction to Dapps
</DocLink>

### Data availability {#data-availability}

The property of a state that any node connected to the network could download any specific part of the state that they wish to

### decentralization {#decentralization}

> The concept of moving the control and execution of processes away from a central entity.

Author: hard not to go down rabbit holes here - I opted to be as high level as possible to keep it uncontroversial

<Divider />

### discovery {#discovery}

> The process by which an Ethereum node finds other nodes (computers running client software) to connect to.

Reviewer: Don't need to explain what a node is here

```suggestion
The process by which an Ethereum node finds other nodes to connect to.
```

The maximum amount of [gas](#gas) a [transaction](#transaction) or [block](#block) may consume.

### gas price {#gas-price}

> Price in ether of one unit of gas specified in a transaction. With the launch of Homestead, the default gas price reduces from 50 shannon to 20 shannon (~60% reduction).

Reviewer: Let's not talk about Homestead here :P

```suggestion
Price in ether of one unit of gas specified in a transaction.
```

A value used to generate the master [private key](#private-key) and master chain code for an HD [wallet](#wallet). The wallet seed can be represented by mnemonic words, making it easier for humans to copy, back up, and restore private keys.

### hexadecimal {#hexadecimal}

> Common representation format for byte sequencing. Its advantage is that values are represented in a compact format using two characters per byte (the characters [0-9][a-f]).

Reviewer: Not convinced we should add this.

Our listing criteria:
- [ ] This is a term not already found in the glossary (for similar terms, please consider the benefits of a new term vs updating an existing term)
- [ ] This term/definition is not a product advertisement or contain other promotional content
- [ ] **This term/definition is directly relevant to Ethereum**

We should be careful not to try to cram every computer science term into the glossary.

Author: ok! removed.

<Divider />

### issuance

The minting and granting of new cryptocurrency to a miner who has found a new block.

> 

Reviewer 2: This is not fully accurate since the launch of the Beacon Chain... Issuance on the Beacon Chain is not just from block proposals, but also for attestations and whistleblowing. 
https://twitter.com/trent_vanepps/status/1509538632016801792

Author: yep, fair. Updated.

  Smart contract security
</DocLink>

### keyfile {#keyfile}

Every account’s private key/address pair exists as a single keyfile in an Ethereum client. These are JSON text files which contains the encrypted private key of the account, which can only be decrypted with the password entered during account creation.

> 

Reviewer 2: Is the term "keyfile" used very often? Feel like "keystore" is much more common. 

Also, this is confusing and makes it sound like all the private/public keys to all accounts exist inside the client software. 

Feel like rewording to not mention Ethereum "clients" here, but perhaps "wallet" or "wallet client" instead?

Author: keyfiles are kept in a  keystore...

but yea maybe keystore is the better term to include instead of keyfile. Will update.

The third development stage of Ethereum, launched in October 2017.

### mining {#mining}

The process of verifying transactions and contract execution on the Ethereum blockchain in exchange for a reward in ether with the mining of every block.

> ### mining pool{#mining-pool}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### mining pool {#mining-pool}
```

> The pooling of resources by miners who share their processing power and split [mining rewards](#mining-reward).

Reviewer 2: (If we switch "mining rewards" to "block rewards" below)
```suggestion
The pooling of resources by miners who share their processing power and split [block rewards](#block-reward).
```

> ### mining reward {#mining-reward}
> 
> The amount of ether given to a miner that mined a new block.
> 

Reviewer 2: Think we should think post-merge here... more accurately this could be listed as "block reward"

```suggestion
### block reward {#block-reward}

The amount of ether rewarded to the producer of a new valid block.

```

Reviewer 2: **Note:** This code suggestion actually would need to be relocated up to where it belongs in the list in ABC order

  Networks
</DocLink>

> ### network hashrate {#network-hashrate}
> 
> The number of hash calculations miners on the Ethereum network can make per second collectively.
> 

Reviewer 2: If we're going to have both "hashrate" and "network hashrate", perhaps link to the other here?
```suggestion
### network hashrate {#network-hashrate}

The collective [hashrate](#hashrate) produced by the entire Ethereum mining network.

```

One of the most prominent interoperable implementations of the Ethereum client software.

### peer {#peer}

Connected computers running Ethereum client software that have identical copies of the [blockchain](#blockchain).

### peer to peer network {#peer-to-peer-network}

> A network of computers ([peers](#peer)) that are collectively able to perform functionalities normally only possible with centralized, server-based services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A network of computers ([peers](#peer)) that are collectively able to perform functionalities without the need for centralized, server-based services.
```

  Plasma
</DocLink>

> ### presale {#presale}
> 
> Sale of cryptocurrency before the actual launch of the network.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  Plasma
</DocLink>

### presale {#presale}

Sale of cryptocurrency before the actual launch of the network.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we note that this was a form of initial ETH issuance that did not come from actual proof-of-work mining or proof-of-stake validating? Okay with just keeping it simple too, just a thought

  Plasma
</DocLink>

### presale {#presale}

Sale of cryptocurrency before the actual launch of the network.

### private key (secret key) {#private-key}

A secret number that allows Ethereum users to prove ownership of an account or contracts, by producing a digital signature (see [public key](#public-key), [address](#address), [ECDSA](#ecdsa)).

### private chain {#private-chain}

> A fully private blockchain is one with write permissions limited to one organization.

Reviewer: Is this accurate? I find it useful to think of private chains as what they are not (open, decentralized) rather than what they are (closed, centralized). How closed they are seems arbitrary to me.

Author: idk, I think this definition makes sense. One "organization" can be one person or one hundred people with multiple affiliations - the point is that not everyone can append data to that particular blockchain.

Suggest changing to:

"A permissioned blockchain with restrictions on who can add data." ?

Reviewer 2: It's not just writing data necessarily either. If I spin up a chain on my own network with restricted access, the public cannot read it either. I could potentially share it with whoever I want though, so it's also not strictly limited to any one entity or organization. 

Could simplify to:
```suggestion
A fully private blockchain is one with permissioned access, not publicly available for use. 
```

  Re-entrancy
</DocLink>

> ### reputation {#reputation}
> 
> The property of an identity that other entities believe that identity to be either (1) competent at some specific task, or (2) trustworthy in some context, i.e., not likely to betray others even if short-term profitable.
> 

Reviewer 2: May push back on this one... as stated this is not really an Ethereum-specific term. Would remove unless we want to rework to be an Ethereum related definition for on-chain reputation, but things are still early on that front so may be best to wait on it for now. 
```suggestion
```

<Divider />

### RPC {#rpc}

> Remote Procedure Call, a protocol that a program uses to request a service from a program located in another computer in a network without having to understand the network details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Remote procedure call (RPC)** is a protocol that a program uses to request a service from a program located on another computer in a network without having to understand the network details.
```

  Sidechains
</DocLink>

### signing {#signing}

Demonstrating that a transaction originated from a specific person by encoding it using a private key.

> 

Reviewer 2: Hrm, don't love this definition.
"Signing" more broadly is using the private keys along with an arbitrary message to generate a cryptographic signature that can easily be verified to have come from the private keys behind the public address. You're not really encoding anything, since a signature cannot be decoded to get the original message. Given a public address/key and a message, these can be signed with the private keys, producing a signature, which can be easily verified to confirm that the private keys must have been available to produce the valid signature.
Also, don't love the use of "specific person" here... keys/addresses are not people and people are not keys.

Author: fair. updated to: "Demonstrating cryptographically that a transaction was approved by the holder of a specific private key."

  Sidechains
</DocLink>

### signing {#signing}

> Demonstrating that some data originated from a certain person by encoding it using a private key.

Reviewer: demonstrating that a transaction originated from... ?

> Demonstrating that some data originated from a certain person by encoding it using a private key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Demonstrating that a transaction originated from a specific person by encoding it using a private key.
```

Supermajority is the term given for an amount exceeding 2/3 (66%) of the total staked ether on the [Beacon Chain](#beacon-chain). A supermajority vote is required for blocks to be [finalized](#finality) on the Beacon Chain.

### syncing {#syncing}

> The process of downloading the entire blockchain.

Reviewer: Latest version?

```suggestion
The process of downloading the entire latest version of a blockchain to a node.
```

  Testnets
</DocLink>

### token {#token}

A fungible virtual good that can be traded.

> 

Reviewer 2: Token's can be both fungible and non-fungible. Not sure I have a great definition here though, but wouldn't declare fungibility here by default

Author: yea good point! 
I guess "virtual goods that can be traded on a blockchain" is better?
@minimalsm opinion?

Author: or "A tradable virtual good defined in smart contracts on the Ethereum blockchain"

Reviewer: Personally, I prefer 'digital' over 'virtual' and 'asset' over 'good' for maximum comprehenability.

"A tradable digital asset defined in smart contracts on the Ethereum Blockchain." 

(although, if you want to argue ether is a token, this 👇 might be better). I think either is fine. And anyone who starts talking about soulbound non-fungible tokens can eff off 😆

"A tradable digital asset on the Ethereum Blockchain."

  Testnets
</DocLink>

### token {#token}

> A fungible virtual good that can be traded. More formally, a token is a database mapping addresses to numbers with the property that the primary allowed operation is a transfer of N tokens from A to B, with the conditions that N is non-negative, N is not greater than A’s current balance, and a document authorizing the transfer is digitally signed by A.

Reviewer: > More formally, a token is a database mapping addresses to numbers with the property that the primary allowed operation is a transfer of N tokens from A to B, with the conditions that N is non-negative, N is not greater than A’s current balance, and a document authorizing the transfer is digitally signed by A.

This is too in the weeds for the glossary

Author: ok!

Reducing transaction fees is a subject of intense interest right now. See [Layer 2](#layer-2)

### trustlessness {#trustlessness}

> Refers to the ability of a network to trustworthily mediate transactions without any of the involved parties needing to trust anyone else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability of a network to mediate transactions without any of the involved parties needing to trust a third party
```

  Staking in Ethereum
</DocLink>

> ### validity proof {#validity-proof}

Reviewer: ty
